In the last lecture we started talking about dealt indication inside our application and we generally
talked about the authenticate middleware and how we can use it to protect certain pages that they required
users of our application to first have an account and then be logged in so we can just secure it from
the outside world.
Now let's see another part of this.
What we get generated by this make our command and this is the registration view.
So Lara will create a simple form for us which we can immediately use to let users read register on
our application.
So you can visit it by pressing this register.
And that's the route that was also registered to using this of roots method call and maybe let's try
if we can immediately register in our application.
And will that work.
So let's provide a name via email address and the password and the password confirmation Press Register.
And you can see that we are logged in and this is the actual ID that home page from the home controller
that was replaced that replaced our original controller by Lavell.
And if we go to that view you can see that we see exactly what is inside this room.
So you can see that it is protected.
Now we can see this page because we are logged in.
So that will register.
Controller is doing it's creating an account and it is also logging us in immediately using the session.
So if you will go to the users they will inside P2P may not mean you can see that we already have this
account created with the name I provided that email and the hashed password.
We also have the timestamps so we can see when the user was created or updated.
So now let's close this and see how that actually works from within inside.
So let's go to this resources views folder and here you can see that first there is this layout created
by Lara VO So this is the one you see right now on the page and and Lavell decided to created inside
the layouts folder our own layout.
E here will move back to it in a bit.
And now there is this folder.
So here it created some of the blade views for registering logging in.
And also for verifying the user using email and resetting passports.
We'll get to that later of course.
Now let's see how this simple registration view looks like so you might have noticed that it is just
simply a forum which has the CSIRO see as RF directive for protecting us against the cross site request
forgery and then it has just simple inputs.
The first one is the name.
It also contains checks.
So when this forum is actually sent it will display some validation errors.
If there are any.
So for example you provided an incorrect name or incorrect email the same with the passwords.
So that's a pretty simple form.
We'll do a do this form ourselves to just practice it because of course we can just leave it as it is
the generated view but it will make sense.
We need to learn how to create those forms not just generate stuff and assume that it is good because
it is working now.
So that's the forum and it is being actually sent using our registered controller which was generated
by Lara Vo.
So as you can see there is a normal controller the registered controller.
It extends the base controller from our project.
But how it gets most of this it functionality is by using that rate.
So this is using their registers users trade and only has a couple of methods.
Now you can also see in the constructor of this class that it is applying a middleware.
This time it's called guest which means it doesn't require authentication.
So it makes sense in terms of the registration controller that anyone can access it.
Because well of course if you will require under authentication at this point no one would be able to
register at your page because they would have to have an account first.
So this makes sense.
Now you can see that we have two methods inside our Controller.
First one is that validator which specifies how the data that is being sent to it from the register
form should be validated.
So we talked about the validators before and we created one for the blog post so you should be familiar
with the syntax.
So those are the fields that come from the forum.
So we have name email password and they all have some constraints like they are all required.
They all should be a string and the name for example has the maximum length accepted.
And additionally e-mail has an e-mail constraint so it will verify if it is a valid e-mail.
It should be unique.
So this is a more complicated constraints constrained we'll get to that later.
But what it simply does is unique is the name of the constraint.
And the second parameter parameters can be passed by the way using the semicolon and the unique constraint
is checking whether this email would be unique inside the user's tables.
So this would prevent us from registering to users with the same e-mail.
So as you can read from that it might be obvious at this point or not.
But a lot of it is by default assuming that your user name would be email so users are made unique by
their e-mail.
So of course you can use different fields for that.
We'll get to that later how we can configured that.
And the last part of this validation is the password.
Of course it's required that it has it has to be a string minimum length is six characters.
And also there is additional validator confirmed.
And this comes from the password confirm field which does has to be the same as this password field.
So we will also explain how that works later.
So you can configure that however you want.
So this that means you can create your own rules.
For example it would be a good idea to specify how strong the password should be.
So we can add some custom validators to it to verify that for example it contains alphanumeric characters
some extra symbols and maybe make it a little bit longer so that all depends on of course on your requirements
because sometimes you would like to make stronger passwords and sometimes you just do not need it.
And the last method here is the create method.
So this is pretty simple.
It's just actually creating a new user model and saving it to the database.
So this is what the create method is doing.
It's creating a new model and saving it immediately inside the database and it is doing that on the
data that is first validated and then passed to this create method.
The only exception is of course the password which is you're using the hash class make to create a hash
of the password because we never never ever should store passwords as plain text inside the database
because anyone that would get access to the database will know all the passwords of your users.
And that happens a lot even with the big companies which happen to store passwords as plaintext.
So you should never repeat their mistake.
Now you should also know how the this metals from your controller which you should configure if you
wish of course are actually called.
So this is thanks to that registers users straight.
So let's click on it and see what does it contain.
So here you have for example the show registration form method which happens to be called by one of
the routes which is this register.
So that's actually an action.
And this trade is just used to save you from coding the code that would look pretty similar anyway.
So we don't really have to create that inside your own controller.
It's just from this trade which you can use inside any class and have those methods ready.
So this is simply showing a view with the forum so that's nice from Laura that it created it for us
and then we have this register method.
So the register is also bound to our route and it's for the post through it.
So when you actually send this registration form you can see that here that it is the register method
is bound to sending a post request to the register your URL and this is what it is doing here.
So it is calling the validator method which you have defined here to validate all the incoming data
so request all will fetch all the fields that were sent through the form.
Now we have validate so we validated for any possible errors.
And as you might remember when you are using that value data and there are any errors.
Laura.
A lot of vote by default will redirect back to the last page which would be forum and we'll add old
errors to their session variable called errors.
That's why we can just simply access it inside our reviews and check if it contains an error and if
it is if it does we can display some additional information about the error on the forum.
Now it also is dispatching an event we haven't covered the events at all yet.
We'll do that later so let's ignore it for now but inside it there is a call to this create.
And as you remember and that's our method inside our registered controller that is actually storing
a new instance of the user.
Also mind that to use this create method in specified model attributes as an array.
We have to specify that those fields are fallible inside our user entity and this is how you do it.
We did that before so you should know what I am talking about.
Now let's go back to the straight visual studio code.
Closed it.
Okay I'll open it permanently now.
So at this point where we validate the data and it is correct.
So there isn't a user with this email already inside the database and there is a name correct.
And the password is correct and it is being confirmed then the new user and the new user is being created
inside the database.
And now when that user is created it is using the Guard component which is fed using the health guard.
This actually is fudging the default guard.
But let's just wait for the next lecture when I will explain what the Guard is and how that works.
And then finally it will try to redirect you to the redirect path so redirect path is a part of the
redirect user.
Straight.
And while this might be complicated but let's try to go through it.
So this will work the way that if you would have method defined called redirect to it will call this
method to fetch to where you would like to redirect the users after they register.
Or alternatively if it doesn't have a method it will use a property called redirect to and then redirect
to the URL specified inside this property.
If nothing is specified it will just redirect you by default to the slash hole.
Now this is our property inside the register controller.
I know I am switching between files so if you would like to see that again that's a good idea.
You might just not follow it but.
Well I'm trying to explain as much as possible.
So sorry for switching the files quickly.
So this is this redirect to property we can of course alternatively specify it as a method if we need
some additional logic.
But here you can configure where where your users should be redirected when you register so they should
be redirected to home.
In this case.
So this is what this trait is using which is basically used inside another trait which we talked about
before those registers users.
So that's the final step.
It is redirecting using the redirect function to the path specified.
Now that would be basically eat about how to basically the register controller works.
Of course it's all provided by Lavell so the fingers so you do not really have to use that because as
you've seen what it does is basically invalidates that data that you have sent then creates a user inside
the database and finally tries to log you in and redirect you to the page specified.
So it's just.
I'd say nice additions from LA all that they do not force you to implement it yourself because that
might become cumbersome when you create an application after application and have to repeat all the
steps but just so you know it is doing those three simple steps and you can just write them yourselves.
And that also includes specifying your own actions and your own routes with your own custom names.
And this is the way you would do it.
You can even follow the way Lara Val is doing that.
If you would like to do it yourself but well we'll just stay with what Lara Ivo is proposing us but
just so you know it's all actually very configurable.